---
title: 7 Reasons I fell In Love With Design
date: 2019-05-31 00:00:00 -0700
related_posts: []
sub_heading: Interview of a retired House Designer
tags:
- Design
- House Design
- Residential House Design
banner_image: "/uploads/2019/08/28/H13519.png"
layout: post

---
# Design: 7 Reasons I fell In Love With it

7 Reasons I fell In Love With Design with an Interview of an Expert. We get you the 7 answers to your most pressing questions. The Design Industry is so vast it encompases everything around you.  There is no aspect of this life that does not involve a designer. To prove this, everything is designed by someone.  Someone has to draw it up! That can be you and not every position needs a degree either!

#### STAY IN SCHOOL!

We would never say to leave school, STAY IN SCHOOL get your degree or degrees.  Some companies simply will not hire you without one and you may need it someday for something else **who knows?** Proof: most of your professional athletes get their degrees for that very reason. If they get hurt and do not recover they are out. You see noone one knows the future except God!

#### I Love Design and You Will To

We want you to explore the design industry and fall in love with it like we did. We will get to the designer interview in a minute. Do you know just how large this field really is. Note: these are jobs and not independent designers which can make $100,000 +  per year working for themselves.  The truth is not all designers  involved graphics? Here is a small list of designer jobs:

* Animators multimedia $60,000


* Artists of all types $60,000


* Automotive &#8211; automobile $65,000


* Business equipment $60,000


* Civil lots and hydraulics $80,000


* Electronics computers $75,000


* Exhibit booths $60,000


* Games all kinds $85,000


* Graphics web, advertising $60,000


* House residential $60,000


* Industrial manufacturing $60,000


* Medical equipment $90,000


* User Experience satisfaction $95,000


* User Interface Elements $85,000


* Web Sites Coding $60,00

There is no Place Like Home

Those famous words are from the movie Wizard of OZ When Judy Garland clicked her heels together with her ruby red slippers and sent her back to Kansas where her home was. But it is relevant to our discussion, because the Reasons I fell In Love With Design industry is the house design industry.  It is in my opinion the best and easiest to make money in the entire market and you can be in charge!  

* Do you want:


* To set your own hours?


* Get up when you want?


* Work the days you want?

 Make as much money as you want or need?

It can take time to get started though lets talk with someone with experience and learn how they got started.

### 7 Reasons I fell In Love With Design: Interview with An 30+ year Expert

#### Designing Dream Homes

Question :  Why would anyone hire a designer?

Answer: Great question, if you do a search on Google for "How much do house designs cost" they will come up with this incredibly low $2,000 cost. Furthermore they claim that it can be done in 10 hours, that is a floor plan not a full house plan, and most people have no idea.

The truth is, for a true custom dream home which include a lot of paid extras. For example truly beautiful kitchen with a spacious wine cellar, awesome master bathroom with his and her stations, large bathtub (for two) a butler's pantry for their morning coffee, deluxe walk in closets. Or maybe the awesome outdoor kitchens, or even a safe room, how about the ornamental designed wrought iron gates and fences, what about the incredible gazebos as you can visualize their is no end to the add ons.

Yes this is the kind of plans we are talking about and they can take 300 hours or more! Obviously no one would even consider doing that kind of work for such a small of an amount of money? I love to design it is the most fun I have ever had working. The truth  is people will pay you the big bucks for that kind of service for their DREAM HOME!

#### Designs for really cheap?

_Question_: So what does a real set of house plans cost?

_Answer_: What you find on the internet for plans that are cheap, will not work for their house or they are simply a garbage plan. Look at the image to the left, it is a pool house not a home.  Listen, houses are designed to be built in ONE specific place.  You have to take into account the _soil the_ _wind speed_, the type of weather, even the **earthquake zone** etc.

Why, because houses can be built on loose or sandy soil (that is not always visible) which need a special foundation, either a post and grade beams, or post tension slabs etc. Or the roof design could be all wrong for the roof load. Let';s say they want it in snow area, the roof has to handle extreme weight loads.  Some areas can have gust of wind of up to 120 miles per hour which can tear off garage doors. This list is endless and the typical person has no idea of any of it.

#### People do not understand

It is your job to explain to them.  You simply tell them why their house must be completely redesigned to be put it where they wanted it. Otherwise they will be told when they go to apply for a building permit.  The building department give a list of local people to help them typically. That is how I got a lot of work, I made sure I was at the top of that list, by taking care of people.

People are willing to pay you good money for things they can not do.  That is the key, the harder it to do something or the more knowledge it takes the more people are willing to pay you lots of money, understand?  However, the truth is it is not that hard but it does take time to learn.  3DePlans will teach you how step by step so you can learn in your spare time.

#### Dream Home Design

_Question_: So how much can you make really?

_Answer_: You should be able to get $9,000 to $20,000 or more to create a full set of house plans depending on where and how large it is.  It is typical to get $3.00 or more per square foot. So if you are doing a 3,000 plus square foot house or addition you can charge $9,000 or more. Don't let those fools on the internet tell you different, that is a come on, an ad to get people in the door.   You will also see people offering to do plans for say $1.95 per square foot.  Be sure to read the fine print. They are including the garage, porches etc.  So they are really getting $3.00 per square foot, get it? It is all in the presentation. Once you explain to the customer they will understand.

#### 7 Reasons I fell In Love With Design: Big Bucks

Another aspect of this is **subdivisions**.   The truth is as designers we are a lot cheaper than architects and that helps a lot.  Subdivisions come in many different sizes. The picture below shows a small one I did locally and got paid handsomely for it. You only two of these a year to live really well.  You could even specialize in these. They are a lot of fun to do also, because they involve a lot of design work which is the best part of this job.  I always found creating the 3D models to be the most enjoyable part of this business.

# This is an image of part of a spreadsheet. It shows the street, the underground work, the driveways, house plans etc. Subdivision-work like this is great work.

#### License for Design?

_Question_: What about an Architectural License:

_Answer_: That's a very legit question. Many states in the USA and many countries require you to be licensed.  Such as an License Architect, or Residential Designer or even an Structural Engineer.  But do not let that stop you.  Those licensed people need help to. You can pick up a lot of work from them as an independent designer. Let them take all the responsibility for that project. Houses are everywhere, there is way too much work to go around for that to stop you. Contractors can also be an excellent source of work, they can keep you really busy (at least the good ones). Some states like California will let any one do a house design, but most cities and counties will want someone to sign off on them. That is when you make friends with a structural engineer. :)

#### Time is Money in Design

_Question_: So what are some of the issues that can come up?

_Answer_: Well just so you do not get the wrong idea, there are aspects that are no fun. It takes time, and no one is ever happy about the amount of time it takes. .  I mean if it could be done in 10 hours then everyone would be doing it.

I am fast, but not that fast.  Yes you and the computer will be spending a lot of time together so get an expensive chair, lots of music or church sermons to listen to.  Some people do not like to sit so you may consider one of those desks that can rise to the occasion.

#### Getting Started in Design

_Question_: How long does it take to learn to do house design?

_Answer_: Well let me explain how I started, I have always been a little different though. I actually just ran an ad in the newspaper offering to do house plans. Yes, I had never done it before and I did not have the experience either.  I only had a set of blueprints for a commercial building to go by. I just jumped in with both feet. It was a different time back then.

I am sure your thinking I must of been crazy right?  Well I had an architect friend that made this suggestion to me.  Also I only charged around 30 cents per square foot I think it was not much. Also like I said it was back in 1980's so the cost was way different. But hey, I got my first client and as it turned out I also had to do the title 24 report. So I researched it and found that the state of California had a program to do the title 24. It was not free, and it was on DOS (Disk Operating System) back then there was no windows software yet. But I figured it all out.

Well, that one customer told his friends and they told their friends and so on.  I also did a house design for his son.  It really is that easy to get customers when you take care of them.  That is the centerpiece to your business. You must always take care of the customer.

I would never recommend that to anyone today. Times are a lot different. But you can start that easy once you know how.  That is what this website is all about teaching you how to do house design.

#### Design Building Codes

_Question_: What about all the Building codes?

_Answer_: Yep, there are a lot of them, and they are big books and a lot of them. However, there is a secret to the building codes. That secret is something that will be covered in detail here at 3DePlans.  We can't give it away until your ready for that kind of information.  But it is really cool and will guide you through it easily. So do not fear that at all.

####  Conclusion

Yes there are a least 7 Reasons I fell In Love With Design.  And learning to do House Design is not that hard. Yes it can take some time, just don't be afraid of it. heck I did this for 30+ years and had a blast doing it. I also took care of my family, met a lot of wonderful people along the way. It can be a great career with many benefits.   If you have ever thought about this as a career this is your best opportunity to get started.